#summary RhinoUnit API description

= RhinoUnit API =

RhinoUnit supplies many functions that are generally useful, as well as functions that make it easy to specify assertions.  Short descriptions of these follow.

= RhinoUnit Assert Object =

===assert.that(actual, predicate)===

This is the basic way of making an assertion in RhinoUnit.  The {{{actual}}} value is the value we are testing, and the {{{predicate}}} defines the actual test.  Use one of the many tests listed below.

{{{assert.that("hello", eq("hello"));}}}

===assert.mustCall(onThisObject, thisMethod)===

Use this to assert that a function called {{{thisMethod}}} on {{{onThisObject}}} is called at least once, sometime during the current test.  The named function will also be called.

{{{assert.mustCall(myObject, "funcThatMustBeCalled");}}}

See AssertMustCall for more information.

===assert.mustCallNTimes(onThisObject, numberOfTimes, thisMethod)===

This works the same as {{{mustCall}}}, but specifies an exact number of times the function must be called.

===assert.functionThatMustBeCalled(thisMethod, originalFunction)===

This provides a function that must be called at least once within the current test, otherwise the test will fail.  It uses the {{{thisMethod}}} string as a name for the function (so you can tell what function was not called).  These tests are usually used when passing in functions as callbacks.

The optional {{{originalFunction}}} is wrapped by the function this assert returns, and will be executed.

{{{
function myCallback(parameter) {
  assert.that(parameter, eq("aValue"));
}
function_I_am_testing(assert.functionThatMustBeCalled("callback1", myCallback));
}}}

See AssertMustCall for more information.

===assert.functionThatMustBeCalledNTimes(thisMethod, numberOfTimes, originalFunction)===

This is the same as {{{functionThatMustBeCalled}}}, but must be called an exact number of times.

===assert.mustNotCall(onThisObject, thisMethod)===

This works the opposite of {{{mustCall}}}, failing the test if the specified function is called.

===assert.functionThatMustNotBeCalled(thisMethod)===

This works the opposite of {{{functionThatMustBeCalled}}}, failing the test if the function this method returns is called.

===assert.fail(message)===

Fails the test instantly.

===assert.callStack(optionalIgnoreAfterMatching)===

Returns a string that contains a listing of the current callStack.  Only pass in the {{{optionalIgnoreAfterMatching}}} regularExpression if you have already identified a particular point that you don't want to display the callstack after.

= RhinoUnit Tests =

===function eq(expected)===

Uses === to compare {{{actual}}} and {{{expected}}} values.

===function similar(expected)===

Uses == to compare {{{actual}}} and {{{expected}}} values.

===function matches(regExp)===

Assumes that {{{regExp}}} is a regular expression, and tests the {{{actual}}} against that regular expression

===function isTrue(message)===

Tests that the {{{actual}}} is true, displaying optional {{{message}}} if it is not.

===function isFalse(message)===

Tests that the {{{actual}}} is false, displaying optional {{{message}}} if it is not.

===function not(predicate)===

Inverts the {{{predicate}}}

===function hasConstructor(expected)===

Tests that the constructor name of the {{{actual}}} object equals the {{{expected}}} string.

===function isA(expected)===

Tests that the {{{actual}}} object is an instance of {{{expected}}}

===function isOfType(expected)===

Tests that the type of {{{actual}}} is equal to {{{expected}}}

===function isCollectionContaining(value, value, value...)===

Checks that {{{actual}}} is a collection (array) containing at least the parameters.

===function isCollectionContainingOnly(value, value, value...)===

Checks that {{{actual}}} is a collection (array) containing exactly the parameters.

===function containsInOrder(value, value, value...)===

Checks that {{{actual}}} is a collection (array) containing at least the parameters, in the same order.

===function isNull(message)===

Tests that the {{{actual}}} is null, returning the {{{message}}} if it isn't.

===function eqFloat(expected, accuracy)===

Test that {{{actual}}} is within accuracy of {{{expected}}}.

===function shouldThrowException(theTest, message, checkException)===

Runs {{{theTest}}} function, and fails with {{{message}}} if no exception was thrown.  Can also specify an optional {{{checkException}}} which details what exception to expect.

= RhinoUnit General Functions =

===function getFunctionNameFor(theFunction)===

Returns a string that is the name of {{{theFunction}}}.

===function getConstructorNameFor(theObject)===

Returns a string that is the name of the constructor of {{{theObject}}}.

===function inspectObject(theObject, depth)===

Prints out a detailed description of {{{theObject}}}.  An optional {{{depth}}} parameter can be used to recurse into the object (to a maximum of {{{depth}}} levels)

===function forEachElementOf(list, doThis)===

Steps through the {{{list}}}, performing {{{doThis}}}.

{{{
forEachElementOf([ "a", "b", "c"], function(element, index) {
  if(element === "a" && index === 1) {
    print("first element was indeed 'a'");
  } else {
    print(element);
  }
});
}}}

===function forEachElementOfReversed(list, doThis)===

Same as forEachElementOf, but steps through in reverse.